Srinivas Devadas: Yes.
Silvio Micali: All right.
Silvio Micali: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to six double of six lecture free. My name is Sylvia and is going to be my pleasure to introduce you to the beauty of searching and sorting.
Silvio Micali: And the by the way this is going to be searching and sorting out of the kingdom over divide and conquer that is this incredible technique of it streaming has already ushered to you and
Silvio Micali: Let's get started. So when you look at the quintessential a search problem, right. The problem is a searcher an element x in an order a copy the lay of elements, right, and you know to do the complex these any takers.
Silvio Micali: All their login right and so was everybody knows the way right because the US, what you do is wait a visit a combination of two factors. The first factor is that
Silvio Micali: You compare in the middle of era, and then you reverse left or right, depending on what you're searching for is a list of in
Silvio Micali: The middle of the day, which is already sorted in the second point is beta you EVA order one access to be great. So that's what is good about this technology.
Silvio Micali: And in some sense, you know, I'm, I'm not going to spend a visa search a problem.
Silvio Micali: To illustrate search because we all knew binary research before six double or six. And in fact, let me give you prove it to you right so anytime that to somebody, nevermind. You knew it because you guys are cool cool why young people, but
Kelly T Lam: Your parents
Silvio Micali: Knew it and never mind. Your parents
Silvio Micali: My parents knew it because anybody read the phone book right and you wanted to look for a phone number.
Silvio Micali: Say Sri Sri Sri Sri you don't start with a and all A's in Boston. And then all BS in Boston area was because otherwise this is going to take him in
Silvio Micali: Terms of a Sagan with a million phone numbers you're going to take control first and second, so it's a lot of time. So what we'll do is we'll pick up in the middle and when
Silvio Micali: They see we may see where it will be land and they go left and right so Michael Amy's we all knew by research.
Silvio Micali: And actually have a stronger claim because I know and I hope a beta biology's that are present and that the live organisms also rely on a feature toggle reserves whatever a
Silvio Micali: Our group is going to tell you about efficient algorithm, somehow you as a biological organism know it already proof because in your life. I mean, we have been all
Silvio Micali: Over that or magazines or 10 to the 10 or whether the new ones are now in T sales or any other type of thing. But if you start to doing running
Silvio Micali: An angel algorithm. We will die before we we can react to any credit or anything so
Silvio Micali: Nature nano only biologists who enjoys an algorithm about nature itself computer, he may have been on is going to rely on efficient algorithm. So
Silvio Micali: They only reason they turn on screen, and I am company.
Silvio Micali: Want to tell you about on on six number six is where we want to make it more efficient in some sense.
Silvio Micali: Nature could save at the Bible Lucia has found the gentle go. He's from the after a long, long longer evolution taking this at all my millions of years and we wanted to somehow simplify
Silvio Micali: Okay, so if I go into the object searching for an element eggs in another a as an example or search list, try to fight to search something
Silvio Micali: A bit cooler and which is a big finding. I'm going to start to describe what pic finding using one dimension in two dimensions. And you can generalize in three dimensions, etc.
Silvio Micali: So a picture is worth 1000 Board, which is a landscape and you see my mouse. Right. I want to find the peak memory. I want to find a local maximum either ways or various I can find a local maximum here I can find the someone here, etc, etc. Right.
Silvio Micali: So in other words, what I like about this program, it's a vector know I have an array in one dimension and they want to find the peak and nothing is order. Look at this array. Does it look order to you know it's not. And so what is a peak peak is an element.
Silvio Micali: AI. If it is not smaller than he is and neighbors. So what would be a peek. Here I am with eight is a pig because eight is greater than five and is greater than three.
Silvio Micali: And by the way, 13 is also a pig because it's greater than or equal to 10 and get them and or equal to five. And by the way, if my day were a little bit different.
Silvio Micali: And so I introduce now I change them. The first element to be 15 column and then when 15 to be a peak as a single neighbor and these are greater than or equal to 14 so that is uptake. Okay.
Silvio Micali: So, more precisely as a by is a peek you about a free case example. First of all, you say I is different. It's not on on on Bay ages over Ray is not is not one that is not an
Silvio Micali: End. He has to be greater than or equal to its neighbors, and if it is one on one side has to be greater than or equal to is only neighbor.
Silvio Micali: Okay. The problem is finding any big. So what I like. Again is vetting of the arrays not sorted. You want to find a local maximum. How the hell do you do it.
Silvio Micali: Any big finding idea.
Silvio Micali: So,
Silvio Micali: First, the booth for service works, right. So what is booth force here is, I'll go into one.
Silvio Micali: Would you mean you scan way away from left to right and you compare each elements will visit neighbors and your exit. When you find the peak of it that you find that a neighbor of an element of it is a greater menace neighbors.
Silvio Micali: And the complexity. Well, of course, is a domain. The because of the way I describe it, because in the worst case here to scan all elements because they say they were very was ordered and he had to go all the way to the end until you find a pig.
Silvio Micali: Okay, so all of that in the booth for so we're not here to teach boot the force algorithm. Right. So there must be something better.
Silvio Micali: In fact, the ear is available. He's on which is a algorithm to we chant or
Silvio Micali: Again, you want to compare the middle element with his neighbor. Here I alight for you in the middle element. And I want to compare it to put on the edge with his left neighbor.
Silvio Micali: Now, case one.
Silvio Micali: Village neighbor is greater than the middle element when. What do I do I look for a peek.
Silvio Micali: On the left,
Silvio Micali: Okay, and what is, in fact, is very instruction.
Silvio Micali: And anything stayed up the middle ailment is greater than or equal to his left neighbor. Well, I start comparing to bug me no Mo, the writer neighbor.
Silvio Micali: And if it is
Silvio Micali: Right neighbor is greater IRA course in right half of every
Silvio Micali: And the Overwatch in beta, what is written here and otherwise, then what do I do when otherwise I'm holding a peek. So that is really very nice. All right.
Silvio Micali: 123 cases done. So what is right around the time of this algorithm.
Silvio Micali: Alright, so let's see learning time we have to do some complex analysis we have here.
Silvio Micali: Again to vein is running time or whatever algorithm I just Skype, but is the time to find the peak in America, your lens and
Silvio Micali: And when I'm going to claim it is to have a nova two plus order one in the data. One is the time to comparing let me the alignment with his neighbors.
Silvio Micali: And take over to his vacation, because I'm happening way my by sides of my problem by definition is staying over to. So if we want to have a lover incursion
Silvio Micali: And by the way, as soon as you will discard. Today's the last time we have Ravel regressions with your b&b to know and when we get something like this that the one that the one that the one that the one login time with for a grand total of data logging.
Silvio Micali: Okay, so I want you
Silvio Micali: To really powers and save it obvious. Okay. I want to rediscover the health toward login is much better when an
Silvio Micali: In fact, I want to call it a step farther and the shape of your secret Logan is always greater than 300 no matter what enemies who said, so I do
Silvio Micali: And why do I say so. Because to make sure that we understand that things properly, you know, beta two to the power of 300 is greater
Silvio Micali: Not only of all the molecules in the universe, but it's greater than all the atoms in the universe. But Adams of electrons and protons is given all the protons and
Silvio Micali: Electrons in the universe and is greater than all elementary particles in the universe photons of protons neutrinos, whatever. So there is
Silvio Micali: I don't know where you want to search for things that if you search have him in our universe.
Silvio Micali: To, to be free Android is the top things that exist in the universe, so to speak. And so the log of it free Android is very large number. You ever get a logo or anything in
Silvio Micali: Not only in our planet, but the in the universe altogether.
Silvio Micali: Good. If you do a transformer a login is actually Forgotten Realms last that's good news. So if you look at the base some big funding in one dimension.
Silvio Micali: Is really the triumph over divide and conquer. Right, and indeed the you must agree with the bed is a very good technique.
Silvio Micali: You divide the input in multiple genres parts you conquer each part, say, but actually using a recursive the call and occasionally
Silvio Micali: You need to combine results from different calls. And again, we have not we are not combining over here, right, anything because once you enter in the
Silvio Micali: In the one dimensional big funding. Once we enter on the left, we don't combine any results and she needed another example in which, you know, he also used it all divide and conquer. But they did not use combine
Silvio Micali: Okay so much fun. We'll do it again.
Silvio Micali: So high. Now we want to do big finding in two dimensions. So we have an array. Right. And by him in this case is a square in these equal to three, and then is equal to free in when an element i j is a two dimensional peak if it is not smaller bunnies for neighbors, up, down, left and right.
Silvio Micali: Okay, I claim vapor in where baba
Silvio Micali: That two dimensional arrays. There are two pics I let you think, which ones they are
Silvio Micali: And of course, you find them, or at least you find the one of them. One is stand on the corner there. Right. And one is 14
Silvio Micali: By the way, I can tell 10 and 14 because
Silvio Micali: They don't appear twice. But otherwise, I should give you a Gordon, it's right. The peak is defined by he scored in it.
Silvio Micali: Okay, so now we know also in two dimensions. What up a PKs and and the problem is we want to find a two dimensional take
Silvio Micali: Again make sure what I want to find the Barry Gordon it. Don't just answer me 10 or 1514 a in homework or things like red
Silvio Micali: And I want to clarify. Wait, no, I don't insist in any special pig, I want an algorithm better returns any local pick you give me a local pig. I go there.
Silvio Micali: But this is a good question right before we start searching for anything. Let me take a sip of water.
Silvio Micali: You know, is a good thing to know before you start launch into looking for something a good question is
Silvio Micali: What I'm funding. Does it exist. And so what is your
Silvio Micali: opinion about a pic. Why should a pic exist.
Silvio Micali: Well, it is a very trivial equation.
Silvio Micali: In ways the trivial because, you know, the way I decided to dimensional peak and also freedom angel is going to be an array right all
Silvio Micali: Is a fun today anyway. And so in any fighter number over numbers in any final set of numbers, there is always a maximum
Silvio Micali: In the maximum is, of course, get them and or equal to anything else in particular to his neighbors. And so, because there is a maximum girls always a peak.
Silvio Micali: But I don't want to find the maximum I want to find that any peak whatsoever.
Silvio Micali: Okay, so now we understood the problem.
Silvio Micali: And we want to find that peak is guaranteed to because East elements of not order. I want to find a local maximum.
Silvio Micali: However, hair, lightweight
Silvio Micali: Well boot force in is always available right with force here is falling. Since I just said with any maximum element is a peek.
Silvio Micali: Veil bizarre reason I'm calling is and one is very to find the maximum element emulator. And we scored
Silvio Micali: Is it to do here is my array, otherwise we find the maximum Visser right well I inspect, you know, row by row always array in I always say keep around the
Silvio Micali: Maximum number but I made another main diagram found some of my record is called the knights. Once I after beta my maximum embittered editor.
Silvio Micali: And the complexity is, well, what can it be is order over N, M, because without nm elemental the array. I'm not saving I'm considering each one of them in based search for the max right
Silvio Micali: Okay so brute force algorithm is nm. By the way, sometimes in a brute force algorithm gives you orrible exponential things. This is
Silvio Micali: Pretty easy as a booth for some reason. Go.
Silvio Micali: So are there other ideas.
Silvio Micali: So when brute force doesn't work.
Silvio Micali: Or you are not happy with brute force if the oldest of think about other ideas and that whenever you look for a man ideas up in six double or six. The main idea is recycling.
Silvio Micali: Which means before, you know, thinking of a new idea, as well as the resource. I mean,
Silvio Micali: Saved your new words right recycling is easier. So if there is your best to say if I learned so far, sometimes, but I can use a technique and pull out of a hat easily
Silvio Micali: And so far, there is only one technique or idea of it that we have been using, which is divide and conquer. So the first thing we have to do is to see if we can recycle divide and conquer here.
Silvio Micali: And by the way, techniques are all about the recycling one because of technique is amazing, but at least solves problems. So, ladies. Okay, so here is a suggestion for recycling divide and conquer.
Silvio Micali: We are in two dimensions, I pick the middle column.
Silvio Micali: Also called a big column j
Silvio Micali: Equal to em over to
Silvio Micali: And what do I do invest a miracle.
Silvio Micali: I find a maximum element.
Silvio Micali: I only ever now elements and I go anti economize kind of anti calm, I found the maximum color day
Silvio Micali: All right, by the way.
Silvio Micali: If Emma in whatever it because I'm doing a recursive algorithm is equal to one. I just quit. But here you can see em is not equal to one way
Silvio Micali: We agree with and searching is is invite him as he wants to be at the beginning. Okay. So after I find when the maximum the middle column I compare this maximum, what they found with his neighbor call them A, B and C. And let's assume a now beta i found the beta be is greater than a
Silvio Micali: Vendor do I do then I want to look for my peak.
Silvio Micali: Invalid columns. Okay.
Silvio Micali: And that is very of the divide and conquer.
Silvio Micali: By taking the middle column I create
Silvio Micali: To sub arrival left column and right column I make one comment I find the maximum a I found that the neighbors b&c I compare b&c because be is greater than a I declare, but then go into the course on the left, call
Silvio Micali: Why
Silvio Micali: Because whenever you want to get to
Silvio Micali: choose where to the course, you must make sure that varies a pic
Silvio Micali: Invalid call now. Don't be confused. Anytime that I gave you
Silvio Micali: Some are a real ready say that any other way is a finance sector numbers. He has a maximum and very for by maximum any maximum is a peak because I must make sure that the when I decided to have a course on the left, the columns.
Silvio Micali: I find that not only a maximum. The left column Mata Pekin the original I gave it a but then given right
Silvio Micali: And why and my guaranteed that the bear is going to be a peek in the original array.
Silvio Micali: Okay, Linda let you
Silvio Micali: To say guns to to figure it out.
Silvio Micali: And so the idea is better. The left column. First of all, they must have been maximum better is always the case, it is finally
Silvio Micali: Last a maximum moment or you want to call a maximum element on the left, M L M for maximum and L for life. That's a good name.
Silvio Micali: Nobody's a bunch of cases. Right. The first case is that the maximum element invalid column is deep
Silvio Micali: In the left column and therefore is a peek in and so invested in the maximum amount of the left column stays there. Then, of course, is a peek because he's loud job and he's always in the verse.
Silvio Micali: And if he were here is also larger than his neighbors and therefore will be a peak in the original like a they only quote tricky and the court case is when the maximum on the left column is on the board says here.
Silvio Micali: And so the fact that is a maximum volume column and doesn't mean that is a that is a peak of the devil. Okay. Because of the right neighbor may actually be
Silvio Micali: Actually bigger many days, but not in this case. Why, because we can apply the triangle and equality. We know that Ml is a maximum and therefore on the left column is left is greater than or equal to anything in the left column, in particular, be be
Silvio Micali: We already said it was strictly greater than a a was a
Silvio Micali: A maximum innovate middle column a beggar for was greater than or equal to anything else.
Silvio Micali: Including the right neighbor or a male and better for BI triangle any quality ml is greater than is right, neighbor.
Silvio Micali: So we know that there is a peek in my left, so it is very good idea to curse on the left column which is b is greater than a similarly if sees good have any when we can hook or somebody had call
Silvio Micali: And
Silvio Micali: If he is greater than or equal to b and c, then of course at itself is a big. Okay, so now we have an algorithm. And we want to execute it.
Silvio Micali: Yeah, is our hey I pick up the middle column.
Silvio Micali: Done. I find that a maximum in the middle column.
Silvio Micali: Actually is nine year is the only maximum when I look at the neighbors, B and C, then I do a comparison BNA and I found the pain is greater than nine. So I have a course on the left column.
Silvio Micali: I find the maximum there. And by the way, at this point, m is equal to one that goes only ever be a single column. This
Silvio Micali: To deal with, I can hold and one one.
Silvio Micali: Is epic. They are limiting position one, one. Okay.
Silvio Micali: All right, so, uh, but for complexity.
Silvio Micali: With is our occurrence. Right.
Silvio Micali: And give them an array of of sides nm. And what do I do
Silvio Micali: I split them are going to like race that is very gorgeous because I I took a course on half of the columns, either on the left home but right
Silvio Micali: And what is the time to scan the middle column and and finding the maximum there and of course if you unravel this record, you get the login time that I entertain that I am for a grand total of data.
Silvio Micali: And the logging.
Silvio Micali: All right. Okay. So I want to, I want to tell you whether we are in a good point because we have found a we have a recycled. Again, the notion of
Silvio Micali: Divide and conquer, but this time we did it in a promo which, in which nothing was ordered and yet somehow in some sense of the generalization of binary search worked and divide and conquer or again work.
Silvio Micali: We feel somewhat happy in this example search, there is unnatural question to ask.
Silvio Micali: I have an angle game. I'll go in some
Silvio Micali: Can I do better.
Silvio Micali: Says, Well,
Silvio Micali: Maybe they can do better. But can you give me a hint. The answer is not
Silvio Micali: Do you know the solution. Absolutely not topic. Why, it's you know, I'll be bombarded by all solution until you emailed me until the solution comes
Silvio Micali: Do you get the expected it now, but I want to have a kind of of glory and honor or if you think about
Silvio Micali: If there is a perhaps a way to improve it, or convince yourself of activism to our algorithm or perhaps even try to argue it is impossible to do whatever it is. Okay, so that's all
Silvio Micali: I want to tell you about search as an example. Now we have the peak and when you guys think about maestro
Silvio Micali: Okay.
Silvio Micali: Today's subject was a
Silvio Micali: Section sorting.
Silvio Micali: Let's go to salty. So thing is a beautiful problem and
Silvio Micali: When we hit this little we all know about it, but it is required of it. You hear it again and because of the more you hear it, the better it sounds
Silvio Micali: So you have an array and you want to find a permutation.
Silvio Micali: You're gonna have a you want to find a permutation to be all over at such a rate of element as order, right. So you start with Mr. K. You want to end up in by Saturday be
Silvio Micali: Integers decimal numbers or whatever. And the question of course is that can we do the efficiency.
Silvio Micali: They first thing with everybody talks about when talking about sourcing is in session sort
Silvio Micali: And which means a beta know you scan way array and you somehow swap two elements were out of order locally.
Silvio Micali: So if we do it the pictorial Lee.
Silvio Micali: You have already sorted an array here. You want to try to enlarge that sub portion of a with a sort of a look at the some element of Jay
Silvio Micali: And what do you want to do when you want to compare with his neighbor and the 50s in order you leave it there and you enlarge whatever has been sorted
Silvio Micali: In otherwise you swap them and maybe it to swap them again and again until you find where the key was to go and when you put it there with the new location or the key and here is actually an array. Right. I start up a compelling to we've we've left and I i to swap it
Silvio Micali: One swap here, then I move on to the next age 23rd element and I compare it and I swap it. And by the way, I don't need to swap over to and again he finds his natural place in one swap nine I need to swap anything is already greater than eight
Silvio Micali: And now everything 248 is already sorted. When I go do swap. Here I Go To consider element free. And when you look at it I to do some free swag. To find the word
Silvio Micali: Free wants to go.
Silvio Micali: And so finally do element six and I find the know another two swaps and then at this point, I have nothing else to nothing else have to
Silvio Micali: Compare and trickle down today. So I'm done in Burgundy time of course is order n square because if somehow Ray was in reverse order yet to do one plus two plus three plus four. The total order n square comparison and swaps. OK. So again, that Inception sort
Silvio Micali: Is somehow way perhaps the easiest algorithm button or in principle you should also figure out of it. The brute force.
Silvio Micali: Would be n factorial, right, because of the brute force and looking for up annotation. What is sorted. How many permutation of a numbers I have, I am n factorial. That is a very fast growing so brute force is absolutely horrible.
Silvio Micali: But in session. So it is not good for us, but it's very elementary and can
Silvio Micali: Can work in order and square
Silvio Micali: By the way, this institution sort of waiver as a little bit of a nice property.
Silvio Micali: Verbatim, you don't need the much extra space, right, you keep on working on order a and perhaps you ever been on order one.
Silvio Micali: Of our sale computer memory to for doing a swap you put something they are not to erase it and so you use a very little extra space to do it. So, the time is and square, but you have an advantage to do very or the one
Silvio Micali: Extra Space
Silvio Micali: All right.
Silvio Micali: So now we want to do better. And the next beta is marriage sort of marriages or three is a type of thing beta. If you don't know about it. You are going to love it. And if you know about it, you can relax. Okay.
Silvio Micali: Personally, I learned about the marriage of sword.
Silvio Micali: When I was also after I did my undergraduate degree in mathematics. Can you believe it. I never heard about computer science and ever heard about algorithm, you guys are lucky you are. I had, but I remember to say, gee, this mentor sort of struck me to be a good idea.
Silvio Micali: And so here it is.
Silvio Micali: You want to sort an array of elements.
Silvio Micali: And then you say, well, if it evaluates very as a single man, and you're done. But it's nothing to sort
Silvio Micali: All otherwise.
Silvio Micali: You will recursive really sort of the first half of every day and basic on a server.
Silvio Micali: And then what you do. Finally, you do some some work to put together.
Silvio Micali: I am but to somebody days left. Hey sorted by writer I sorted is what I want to know. I wanted a they all have a sorted. So I want some our marriage. These to sort that our race finally had to do some combining
Silvio Micali: Is divide and conquer, but very son combine it and the combining sub routine is actually the main sub routine and his marriage.
Silvio Micali: Here is out you combine
Silvio Micali: Out your marriage to order right
Silvio Micali: So,
Silvio Micali: My array. And if you remember eight elements so valid array as four elements of it as four elements was even so I bet I equal sides. So one column is sorted already array and the other column is the other half sorted
Silvio Micali: And so here I want to prepare a bunch of buckets of eight buckets all together.
Silvio Micali: A show six dot dot dot rest and to all the all the elements on my era. And so what I do is that because I sorted. I can easily locate
Silvio Micali: Really the minimum of two array and which are not have the two possible minimum minimum minimum were over over holiday, the minimum of a tool. So I compare one and two, one is more or less well if it is as most
Silvio Micali: Of the meeting. Number two, he is the smallest all that all so I can put the okay to commit that the first output and the first element of algebra today is one
Silvio Micali: And then I deleted and so much fun. I'll do it again. I look at the smallest elemental the left or grey and override array.
Silvio Micali: And the smallest this too, I must make the best comparison and I can commit very, very sick on element available today is too and I deleted and keep on going like race like this like race like this.
Silvio Micali: Okay.
Silvio Micali: So,
Silvio Micali: Bottom line is that anytime
Silvio Micali: They want to commit to one or more element.
Silvio Micali: I'm taking essentially
Silvio Micali: One comparison and vain I essentially deleted conceptually when element and I move it over there. So I'm doing essentially order one work one comparison when maybe one, not a transfer, so to speak.
Silvio Micali: So it because I have been all I have to allocate a very element in each one of them cost them all the one way. Time to marriage is take away
Silvio Micali: Okay, so now we discovered it. Now we can do some analysis.
Silvio Micali: The analysis goes on but height manager sort I declared I give it a name takes up to end with a powerful operation and giving people
Silvio Micali: Things on name. You can reason about.
Silvio Micali: The base case, instead of one. We go as we said okay corrosively sort. Well, I have two arrays of
Silvio Micali: Sides each. So he's a tour and over to of course. And when we operation or marriage, instead of him. So what is my recursion is the following.
Silvio Micali: To TN over two plus that one or order one. If it's in a sequel to it and when, when you do solo record and sing in a recitation. You would find now, finally, a way to do it. But for now we have to do it from scratch.
Silvio Micali: I want to solve this stuff and I want to solve it by writing about Michael Jordan, like this, like I'm substituting to van.
Silvio Micali: Is equal written here twice to n plus your name, so I can replace my co vain and I get that to go down without a word of caution tree. And when I keep on doing the same thing here.
Silvio Micali: And I keep on doing my things here. Right. And so then, very good. So Festival. So now, we have to do the counting the first label it goes to me. See all then the second labor costs twice cn have a tool which is again total seal, then
Silvio Micali: The third the label is four times see over and over for. And so my OMA is co events, events. You'll then login time and therefore I have VR and leaves altogether.
Silvio Micali: And so very for VCs at the bottom. It takes me better when So Megan total is
Silvio Micali: Data or vendor login
Silvio Micali: Okay, so
Silvio Micali: If you have never seen the merger sort of before I you must agree with the rest is actually a non trivial algorithm.
Silvio Micali: In fact is inelegant Al Gore ism and I save it in all familiarity breeds.
And
Silvio Micali: You despise familiarity and you're wrong.
Silvio Micali: Very often, I think, you know, you have to go down. You never realize it. So I ain't nobody knows the best algorithm and you lose interest right we lose interest in motorsport.
Silvio Micali: In a but if you seen for the first time, but like I saw my first time is a very elegant algorithms. RIGHT. THAT'S NOT THE FIRST THING WITH YOU THINK ABOUT sorting and you have an elegant abrogation of divide and conquer and perhaps
Silvio Micali: He is one of my favorite algorithm was a very clean and obviously it's a very clean idea is beautiful.
Silvio Micali: So the only thing with is not beautiful is better yet to do this, you know, somehow recursion tree right to analyze availabilities but you know, I'm the burial. Good news, as well as
Silvio Micali: Beta, you are going to learn. They must have my foot.
Silvio Micali: In the recitation. And that is an automatic way to solve the most recurrences.
Silvio Micali: So somehow, if I were you, I would say, I can't wait to learn resonator because I'm sick and tired of the hardest things
Silvio Micali: And if you are me. Let me confirm, but I also can wait for you to learn this major why because believe it or not to do PowerPoint to
Silvio Micali: unravel this tree. It takes me time and if I can just say solver by record some major saved me a lot of time so but online. That's all I wanted to say for today and my wishes. Let's go and master but rest of the day with web better things to do.
Silvio Micali: I notice visa waiver, we have
Silvio Micali: A few more.
Silvio Micali: A few more minutes.
Silvio Micali: And perhaps we want to make sure to
Silvio Micali: To use them wisely. Right.
Silvio Micali: Now what the better wise use of his finger with to contradict myself and starting getting into
Silvio Micali: You remember misspeak finding into dimension em Logan right
Silvio Micali: And I wanted to say maybe I should give you any hint and maybe the behavior doesn't work, you know, actually, the two feasible. I do not know if this trick works or not. But let's reason together.
Silvio Micali: In peak finding. In two dimensions. Right. Perhaps they want to do. I want to stop sharing. Maybe we'll
Silvio Micali: By the way, I should actually say before stop sharing is there is any questions about the material right now so presented before starting doing anything will be good.
Silvio Micali: I don't see any equation. So if I stop sharing so I stopped sharing
Okay.
Silvio Micali: Okay.
Silvio Micali: We're back. So
Silvio Micali: I remember we have a VISTA matrix, right, and by him.
Silvio Micali: And they wanted to find
Silvio Micali: A two dimensional peak.
Silvio Micali: And with three will always move was order n times n. And when we find an empty logging.
Silvio Micali: Why, because we were somehow happening.
Silvio Micali: VIN number overalls, right, we might have a matrix into one half.
Silvio Micali: But the way the column remain always in Soviet for a head n times logging because I was only asking the hills, but not the calls. So if they're going to better
Silvio Micali: What is the only thing that I might be able to do to try to see if I can have both have a column and way.
Silvio Micali: And vay enviros right because if I have been both of them. Perhaps I can actually get some speed up
Silvio Micali: So this is the only idea, but I bet I have. I don't even know if it's a him to because I don't even know is easy to say in English. Well, I got a login because available to play.
Silvio Micali: Videos. So how about offering gold, silver, gold was easy to say, but remember, but when you try to do various you must convince better you can
Silvio Micali: huffing McAfee columns and rows together is is easy, but you must find a way
Silvio Micali: When you want to recursive one of these two quadrants to make sure to reverse in a quadrant. That is guaranteed to contain a to debug right
Silvio Micali: If you go back
Silvio Micali: In whatever
Silvio Micali: We went to food together when
Silvio Micali: We want to of course on the left column, we had to argue to ourselves vapor was something that we really wanted to find on the left. Otherwise, you go and get whole get lost in some black hole. So whatever idea you want to do.
Silvio Micali: If you want to follow this potential idea. I don't even know if it is a hint.
Silvio Micali: Oh you restrict like gradient
Silvio Micali: Wow.
Silvio Micali: That's a great idea. Let me put it on my side. Let's continue with my silly perhaps area.
Silvio Micali: I you know what the guys what I realized with a by projecting I don't see your chat questions one instead let's stop projecting I see that there is a 79 last chance. I must think about the way in going forward.
Silvio Micali: But I am alerted when, if you have a question of a chat. My goodness, what have I done. I started talking without noticing.
Srinivas Devadas: Sylvia ST. JOHN and others have been answering the questions so
Silvio Micali: All right. Hi.
Silvio Micali: My friends cover my back. Thank you very much, guys.
Silvio Micali: And
Silvio Micali: Okay, so right. So, baby. I remember when we want to look at the middle column and we will look at the way at the way the maximum and when we compare with the left and right in this
Silvio Micali: Was later at the say I'm going to look on this middle section, we wanted to be then certain there was a peak right
Silvio Micali: And so
Silvio Micali: So therefore, if you want to do a quadrant. You can do a quadrant, provided that you are able to find a way. Once you recording one quadrant by half. And in both columns and and and
Silvio Micali: And the roles at the same time, you must have an argument with a peak. Is there any few succeed. Maybe this idea is worthwhile. Otherwise, I don't even know. But is it
Silvio Micali: The idea is also seems a great is to say
Silvio Micali: You know, what is a peek, a peek here is
Silvio Micali: A peak is a local maximum. And in continuous mathematics right when you want to lose a local maximum. You look at the gradient which is a generalization of the derivative, right in multi dimensions. And if you want to follow a local maximum. Say, follow the gradient
Silvio Micali: And if everybody knows about the best part of mathematics. You know, if you follow a gradient, you are not guaranteed to enter in the total maximum, but you are guaranteed to enter in a local maximum.
Silvio Micali: Maybe there is a good idea here, right.
Silvio Micali: Maybe this idea from Bay.
Silvio Micali: Continues mathematics can apply here to and we may actually
Silvio Micali: Ever two ideas. One is this my idea of the quadrants, and one is idea of your friend to say, do a gradient. Again, remember when you have an idea, you must
Silvio Micali: Congratulate yourself for because he thought about something new.
Silvio Micali: whether it works or not is irrelevant. I think ideas should be always celebrated. So there is two ideas and perhaps you can find the third one, and that is actually the cool thing about an arm and
Silvio Micali: Algorithms that nobody knows of a mall is a really have more of an art algorithm. When a science. There is no recipe to find efficient targeting sense
Silvio Micali: You must find a bunch of ideas. What are we are going to do here have a staff of six level or six is to introduce you to 12345 ideas that are going to be
Silvio Micali: Very cool ideas and you can put them in your
Silvio Micali: In your set of tools and tie by recycling a new problem and try to fit into some of his ideas and if it works fine. And if it doesn't work, then
Silvio Micali: Then
Silvio Micali: Oh,
Silvio Micali: OK, and then
Silvio Micali: Venue to develop a new one. Right. Okay. So I think a bit a bit some somehow we took a lot of attention and now about an old divide and conquer.
Silvio Micali: And so far I can say is they only technique we really used. And so I think of it and all from next lecture we are going to use a little bit and or a different technique and
Silvio Micali: By the way, the new techniques is called action and let them tell you is a really good technique. So I encourage all of you to learn about it until and and to
Silvio Micali: And and see what the next lecture. Any other questions or otherwise, we can even must have a rest of the day with 10 minutes ahead will better quit when we, I had a
Silvio Micali: Question one question to question three. No. All right, let's guys. Have a good day and see you later. Okay, it's your own first day. Bye bye.